
Q. How do I setup the application ?

   You need to edit the file settings.py to point to the database
   you wish to use

Q. How do I import my GEDCOM data ?

   Currently, GeneaPro is a read-only view. You should therefore
   have a GEDCOM file created by another genealogy software.
   Once you have this file, you should type the following command:
      make reset
      ./manage.py import gedcom.ged
   where the last argument is the path to your gedcom file.

   The first command is optional, and will reset the database. The
   second command will always add to the existing database

Q. How do I start the server ?

   Use ./manage.py runserver
   and then open a web browser and connect to
      http://127.0.0.1:8000/geneapro
   Support web browers include Firefox and Chrome. Internet Explorer
   does not currently support svg, except maybe through external
   plugins. Opera does not properly support text in svg.

Q. Why did you implement this as a web server ?

   A traditional GUI (based on a native API like gtk+, QT or Win32)
   provide greater efficiency and flexibility in a lot of cases. However,
   web technologies are far more portable. In particular, since the server
   is written using a standard python framework (django), you could
   install it at your ISP, and then access your genealogy from anywhere
   using a mobile device. Since Geneapro is implemented using standard
   web technologies (as opposed to Flash), this also increases its
   portability.

Q. What is the data model used in the database ?

   Although this should be transparent to the end user, the data model
   is almost a 1-to-1 mapping of the GenTech datamodel, which is based
   on assertions and avoids any limitations like a unique birth date per
   person for instance. Technically, you could also store negative
   assertions ("this person is _not_ born on that date"), which might be
   useful later on.

Q. What is the license ?

   This is GPL version 3 software, copyright Emmanuel Briot

Q. What format should I use for dates ?

   Geneapro supports multiple input formats for dates. In particular,
   the usual formats yyyy-mm-dd, dd-mm-yyyy, "yyyy mm, dd", as well as
   ambiguous formats like "about yyyy", "ca yyyy", "between yyyy-mm and yyyy".
   It also supports other calendars like Julian dates and the French
   revolutionary calendar.
   In fact, you are free to use any format you want, and geneapro will
   store it exactly as is in its database, and print it exactly as. But
   it will try internally to make sense out of it, for sorting purposes.
   This is done automatically.

Q. Does geneapro support same-sex marriages ?

   Yes, a marriage is just an event where several people took part,
   just as in any other event. These persons are given a role in the
   event (for instance "husband" and "wife"), but nothing prevents you
   from either creating new roles ("partner"), or using two husbands or
   two wifes.
   Some events and roles plays a special part since they are used to
   display the pedigree and fan charts (father and mother of a child for
   instance).

Q. Is there limit to the number of persons in the database ?

   No, geneapro uses a real database (postgreSQL, mySQL or sqlite) as
   its data storage, and they do not impose limits.
   Geneapro is carefully optimized to limit the number of queries. For
   instance, to display the pedigree, it needs one query per generation
   in your whole tree (even in the parts that are not displayed), plus
   a few others to get the birth and death dates. Using style highlighting
   for the persons does not add more than a few extra SQL queries, so these
   are all pretty cheap, especially when the database is also running
   locally on the same machine.

Q. I like The Master Genealogist's accents feature

   Good thing. Geneapro has a similar feature, although I believe
   more powerful.
   You will currently have to manually edit the custom_highlight.py python
   file to specify your highlight rules, but they are extremely
   powerful, allowing you to choose background color, text color,
   text weight, font and many other aspects depending on the attributes
   of the person or the events in which she took part. For instance,
   you can highlight with special colors:
     - The persons born in a specific city before a specific date
     - The persons that have any event in a specific city
     - The persons that died before 60
     - The persons born in other countries
     - The persons with inconsistencies, like too young at the birth
       of their first child or too old at their recorded death
     - The persons with more than one registered marriage data
     - All the male ancestors of a given person
   and many other types of rules

Q. Can I see a tree of my ancestors ?

   Yes, that and a fanchart are actually the only two "reports" that
   have been implemented in Geneapro so far. But they impose no limit on
   the depth of the pedigree and fanchart, except for that related to
   current browser technology limitation (most of them are still a bit
   slow manipulating huge SVG drawings).

Q. Does Geneapro handle the implex ?

   The implex is one person appears several times in a pedigree (for
   instance, the same couple was the parents of two of your ancestors).
   Like all other genealogical software, Geneapro will of course not
   duplicate data about those persons in the database. In addition, you
   can configure the highlighting styles so that a person that appears
   multiple times in the tree or fanchart visible on the screen gets
   special colors (background or foreground) and/or fonts. This makes
   it easier to see them immediately.

Q. Does Geneapro support sources ?

   Although support for sources is currently limited, Geneapro will
   nonetheless show a special tick mark next to birth, marriage or
   death events when they have a proper associated source. This is
   a convenient way to find out which sources should be updated.
